In the previous video, I demonstrated
that you could cast variables,
but because numbers are stored in two's complement,
and the last bit is for the sign,
you can overflow or underflow the values.
In this code sample, we'll explore a Java 8 feature
that has some support for unsigned ints
and unsigned longs.
So I'm gonna start by creating a new class
in our current project
and calling it UnsignedExample.
(keyboard clacking)
Paste some code in.
Okay, so there's the code.
So looking at this code,
we're trying to purposely overflow our variable
in testInt, as you can see on line 16.
We've got Integer.MAX_VALUE and we're adding three to that
and then printing out the output.
Moving on down, we're setting the value to a long
which will represent our number without overflowing
because obviously a long can take the maximum value
n more of an integer,
then we're printing out the results of that.
But down here, starting on line 26,
as of Java 8 you can evaluate the number
as an unsigned int.
So we can see an example of that on line 26
and then we're outputting that.
But also, we can take the same number,
wrap it in a String,
and then pass that to the Integer.parseUnsignedInt
method, and we're doing that on line 31.
And printing out the results.
So let's actually run this.
And then the values you can see on screen here now.
Okay.
Right, so let's move on now to binary literals.
They were introduced in Java 7.
The exam may include a question or two
with these in them, so let's look at them.
We need to start out by creating a class
in our current project called BinaryExample.
(keyboard clacking)
Paste the code in.
Okay, you can see that we've got various examples
of binary literals here,
starting out with 8-bit values
and showing what the appropriate value is
on the right-hand side.
Of course I've got a short there with the expected value.
We also have some 32-bit int values.
And general note there, that the B in the binary literal
can be upper or lower case,
you can see an example of both
on lines 21 through 22,
but also various values,
as you can see for the integer data type there.
Remember that you don't have to represent the literal
with the actual number of bits that the data type has,
and as shown particularly in the int examples,
we've got a literal there, 0b101.
The other 29 bits in that scenario,
because it's a 32-bit number are inferred
and are zeroes.
And also you see the underscore in these literals
as you've seen examples of there,
that definitely helps to show each byte
if you want to do that.
Now moving on to the 64-bit examples using longs,
note the L suffix for the first 64-bit long there.
We need to do that because the value exceeds
a literal int and you'll get an error if you don't do that.
And the value is shown above that,
because I wanted to include it on the screen.
And in the second example,
the value hasn't, it's not using the suffix L there,
and the reason for that is that the number
is small enough, so in other words
it doesn't exceed the maximum size for an integer.
And noting that the value's above that on line 27
only the value five.
All right, so let's actually run that.
We get the expected output
at the bottom of the screen there.
So here's some things to remember
when reviewing code samples on the exam
that find themselves into many questions.
Literals with decimal default to double, not float.
Doubles and float don't overflow,
since they're approximated.
Local variable primitives aren't initialised.
Class and static and instance members are initialised.
Null is not a valid type for a primitive data type.
And finally, you'll see a lot of constructors
and methods in the following sections
on String and StringBuilder
that have parameters or methods that refer to code points.
The Java specification includes the following description
of the char data type
and its limitations to represent all the possible
characters available
and Java's implementation to address the limitation.
Now you don't need to memorise this description
for the exam, but it is enlightening.
Unicode character representations.
The char data type and therefore the value
that a Character object encapsulates
are based on the original Unicode specification
which defined characters as fixed-width 16-bit entities.
The Unicode Standard has since been changed
to allow for characters whose representation requires
more than 16 bits.
The range of legal code points
is now U+0000 to U+10FFFF,
known as Unicode scalar value.
The set of characters from U+0000 to U+FFFF
is sometimes referred to
as the Basic Multilingual Plane, BMP.
Characters whose code points are greater
than U+FFFF are called supplementary characters.
The Java platform uses the UTF-16 representation
in char arrays, and in the String
and StringBuffer classes.
In this representation, supplementary characters
are represented as a pair of char values,
the first from the high-surrogates range,
and that's Unicode D800 to Unicode DBFF,
the second from the low-surrogates range,
Unicode DC00 to Unicode DFFF.
All right, so let's move on now,
coming up next is a quiz,
and then we're going to move on to
the next part of this section,
and that's identifying the scope of a variable.
See you in the next video.